Website T&C's
Version 1.0

Website Ts&Cs

This website is hosted by Certua. These Terms and Conditions (together with the documents referred to in them) set out the terms on which you may make use of our website certua.io (our “website”). Please read these carefully before you start to use the website. By accessing our website you indicate that you accept these terms and agree to abide by them; if you do not agree to this, please refrain from using our website.

About us

mrsl.certua.app is a website operated by Certua Group Limited (“we” or “us”). We are registered in England under company number 10410856 and our registered office is at 1st Floor, HealthAid House, Marlborough Hill, Harrow, HA1 1UD, United Kingdom. Certua Group Limited and its subsidiaries are referred to in these terms as our “associated companies”.

Accessing our website

We’ll always try to provide you with uninterrupted access to our website, but we cannot guarantee this and we reserve the right to terminate, suspend or restrict your access to our website at any time if required for security, legal or other reasons that we determine. We also reserve the right to amend the services we provide without notice. We will not be liable if for any reason our website is unavailable at any time. From time to time, we may restrict access to some parts of our website, or our entire website, and if the need arises, we may close it indefinitely.

Intellectual Property Rights and Trademarks

Any logos, trademarks, service marks or domain names of the Companies with which we have business relationships, remain the intellectual property rights of those companies, and you may not reproduce them without prior written consent from them.

Other than the above, we are the owner or the licensee of all intellectual property rights, including, without limitation, all logos, trademarks, service marks, domain names, database rights, rights in designs, rights in know-how, patents and rights in inventions (whether registered or unregistered) and all other intellectual or industrial property rights in any jurisdiction and for any information, content, materials, data or processes contained in or underlying this website and/or services we provide. These works are protected by copyright laws and treaties around the world. All rights of Certua Group Limited in such intellectual property rights are hereby reserved.

You may print off one copy, and may download extracts, of any page(s) from our website for your personal reference and you may draw the attention of others within your organisation to material posted on our website.

You must not modify the paper or digital copies of any materials you have printed off or downloaded in any way, and you must not use any illustrations, photographs, video or audio sequences or any graphics separately from any accompanying text. Our status (and that of any identified contributors) as authors of the material on our website must always be acknowledged.

You must not use any part of the materials on our website for commercial purposes without obtaining a licence to do so from us or our licensors.

If you print off, copy or download any part of our website in breach of these terms of use, your right to use our website will cease immediately and you must, at our option, return or destroy any copies of the materials you have made.

Trade Marks

Certua, the Certua logo and the Certua Hexagon logo are registered trademarks of Certua Group Limited.

Our website changes regularly

We make every reasonable effort to ensure that the content available to you on our website is up-to-date and accurate, and for this reason we make changes to our website frequently.

Reliance on information posted

We have taken every reasonable step to ensure that the commentary and other materials posted on our website are accurate and up-to-date. However such materials are not intended to amount to advice on which reliance should be placed and we cannot accept any liability for any errors or omissions. We therefore disclaim all liability and responsibility arising from any reliance placed on such materials by any visitor to our website, or by anyone who may be informed of any of its contents. We reserve the right to add, amend or delete information from this website at any time.

Privacy and Cookies

We take the protection of your personal data very seriously and are committed to ensuring that your privacy is protected. Further information on this can be found in our Privacy & Cookie Policy.

Viruses, hacking and other offences

You must not misuse our website by knowingly introducing viruses, Trojans, worms, logic bombs or other material which is malicious or technologically harmful. You must not attempt to gain unauthorised access to our website, the servers on which our website is stored or any server, computer or database connected to our website. You must not attack our website via a denial-of-service attack or a distributed denial-of-service attack.

By breaching this provision, you may commit a criminal offence under the Computer Misuse Act 1990. We will report any such breach to the relevant law enforcement authorities and we will co-operate with those authorities by disclosing your identity to them. In the event of such a breach, your right to use our website will cease immediately.

We will not be liable for any loss or damage caused by a distributed denial-of-service attack, viruses or other technologically harmful material that may infect your computer equipment, computer programs, data or other proprietary material due to your use of our website or to your downloading of any material posted on it. It is your responsibility to ensure that you use appropriate virus checking software.

Linking to and from our website

You may link to our home page, provided you do so in a way that is fair and legal and does not damage our reputation or take advantage of it, but you must not establish a link in such a way as to suggest any form of association, approval or endorsement on our part where none exists. The website from which you are linking should be appropriate to our business and/or needs of our customers. Our website must not be framed on any other website, nor may you create a link to any part of our website other than the home page. We reserve the right to withdraw linking permission without notice. If you wish to make any use of material on our website other than that set out above, please address your request through our Contact Us page.

Where our website contains links to other websites and resources provided by third parties, by means of hyperlinks or emailed to you as part of our services, these links are provided for your information only. These websites are owned and operated by third parties and we have no control over the contents of those websites or resources. We accept no responsibility for any statements, information, products or services that published or may be accessible through such third party websites, or for any loss or damage that may arise from your use of them.

Monitoring of telephone calls and emails

Telephone calls and email correspondence arising as a result of your access to the website may be recorded for training purposes and to assist in the prevention of fraud. By using such communication methods you are consenting to such activities taking place.

Our liability to you

PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING PROVISIONS CAREFULLY. THEY EXCLUDE OR LIMIT OUR LEGAL LIABILITY TO YOU IN CONNECTION WITH THIS WEBSITE.

The material displayed on our website is provided without any guarantees, conditions or warranties as to its accuracy.

These terms do not affect our liability to you in any way for: personal injury or death arising from our negligence, nor our liability for fraudulent misrepresentation or misrepresentation as to a fundamental matter made by one or our employees or agents, nor any other liability which cannot be excluded or limited under applicable law. To the extent permitted by law, we, and third parties connected to us hereby expressly exclude:

All conditions, warranties and other terms which might otherwise be implied by statute, common law or the law of equity. Any liability for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage incurred by any user in connection with our website or in connection with the use, inability to use, or results of the use of our website, any websites linked to it and any materials posted on it, including, without limitation any liability for:
loss of income or revenue; loss of business; loss of profits or contracts; loss of anticipated savings; loss of data; loss of goodwill; wasted management or office time; and
any other loss or damage of any kind, however arising and whether caused by tort (including negligence), breach of contract or otherwise, even if foreseeable, provided that this condition shall not prevent claims for loss of or damage to your tangible property or any other claims for direct financial loss that are not excluded by any of the categories set out above.
Under no circumstances will we be responsible for any losses which arise in connection with an event or series of events which is/are outside of our reasonable control. Our total liability in contract, tort (including negligence or breach of statutory duty), misrepresentation to you, whether restitution or otherwise, arising in connection with the performance or contemplated performance of these terms shall in all circumstances be limited:
any claim arising as a result of these terms must be notified to us in writing within 6 (six) months of the date that such liability arises. Failure to provide notice within this period will forfeit any claim.
Your liability

If you breach any of these terms or we determine (in our sole discretion) that you demonstrated inappropriate conduct when using our website, we may take measures to terminate or suspend your access to the website. If your use of our website causes us to suffer any loss or damage, you shall be responsible for reimbursing us for any such loss or damage that we suffer.

Jurisdiction and applicable law

The English courts have exclusive jurisdiction over any claim arising from, or related to, a visit to our website, although we retain the right to bring proceedings against you for breach of these terms in your country of residence or any other relevant country. These terms and any dispute or claim arising out of or in connection with them or their subject matter or formation (including non-contractual disputes or claims) shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of England.

Contacting us

If you have any concerns about material which appears on our website, or would like to contact us for whatever reason, please use the details provided on the website.

Amendments to these terms

We may revise these Terms and Conditions at any time by amending this page, and the amended terms will apply from the date they’re posted on our website. You will still need to agree to them, so please check this document each time you use our website; if you keep using our website, we’ll assume that you have agreed to any changes made.

If any of these provisions prove to be unlawful, void or unenforceable for any reason, the particular provision shall be deemed deleted and will not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions.

These Terms and Conditions were last updated in July 2022.