Policy
Terms and
Conditions
1
Money For Them Plan – Policy Terms & Conditions V1.6 – 01 Apr 2022
Policy Terms and Conditions
Welcome
This document contains policy terms and conditions ensuring you have everything
you need to know about your Life Insurance cover. They are written confirmation of
your contract with Scottish Friendly Assurance and should be read together with your
policy schedule and policy summary.
It also explains how you or your family would go about making a claim if you were to
die or become seriously ill.
Your policy information is always available to download from your account on
moneyforthem.com, making it quick and easy to use in the future. It’s a password
protected account on our website, where details of your cover are stored as digital
files.
Contents
1. How to contact us
2. Your policy
3. Paying out
4. What’s covered?
5. Paying for your cover
6. If you miss a payment
7. Changing your policy
8. How to claim
9. When are you not covered?
10.Online dispute resolution
11.Financial Services Compensation Scheme
12.Solvency II Directive Information
13.General conditions
14.Glossary
2
Money For Them Plan – Policy Terms & Conditions V1.6 – 01 Apr 2022
1. How to contact us
For enquires, complaints and cancellations:
Write: Money For Them c/o Certua Protect Limited, 27 Corsham Street, London,
United Kingdom, N1 6DR
Call: +44 (0)20 3962 0003
Email: hello@moneyforthem.com
For claims:
Write: Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Ltd., Galbraith House, 16 Blythswood
Square, Glasgow G2 4HJ
Call: +44 (0)333 323 5433
2. Your policy
Your policy is arranged and administered by Money For Them for Scottish Friendly
Assurance Society Limited.
Money For Them is a trading name of Certua Protect Limited, which is authorised and
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Certua Protect Limited’s registered
office can be found at the following address: 1st Floor, Healthaid House,
Marlborough Hill, Harrow, Middlesex, HA1 1UD (registered in England, no.
10649821).
Certua Protect Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority and is entered on the Financial Services Register (registration no. 826485).
Copyright © 2020 Certua Group Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Your policy is issued and underwritten by Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited
and is a contract between you and Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited.
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited is a friendly society incorporated and
registered under the Friendly Societies Act 1992. Its registered office can be found at
the following address: Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Ltd., Galbraith House, 16
Blythswood Square, Glasgow G2 4HJ
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited is Authorised by the Prudential
Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and
Prudential Regulation Authority. Registration No. 110002, with permission to effect
and carry out contracts of insurance.
3
Money For Them Plan – Policy Terms & Conditions V1.6 – 01 Apr 2022
3. Paying out
This Life Insurance policy pays the sum assured if you (the life assured) die between
the policy start date and the policy expiry date or if you are diagnosed with a terminal
illness between the policy start date and policy expiry date.
The policy will stop when the Insurer pays a claim.
4. What is covered?
The main benefits of your policy are insurance cover for death and terminal illness.
You will be covered if before the end of the policy you die or you are diagnosed with a
terminal illness.
You have a single policy for one person.
Your policy schedule shows who your policy covers (you), the start and end date and
how much cover you have asked for.
Death benefit – we’ll pay this if the life covered dies during the policy term.
We won’t pay if the life covered dies because of suicide or intentional self-inflicted
injury within 12 months of the policy start date. If this happens, the policy will end.
We’ll pay the cover amount shown in the policy schedule.
Terminal illness benefit – we’ll pay this if the life covered is diagnosed with a terminal
illness that meets our specific policy definition (set out below) during the policy term.
Terminal illness is defined as a definite diagnosis by the attending consultant of an
illness that either has no known cure or has progressed to the point where it cannot
be cured, and in the opinion of the attending consultant and our medical officer, is
expected to lead to death within 12 months.
5. Paying for your cover
You need to pay your premiums to keep your policy in force.
Your policy schedule will show the premium you will pay, together with the date it
and subsequent payments are due.
Your premiums are guaranteed and won’t increase over the policy term.
Don’t expect your payment details to change unless we get in touch to say otherwise,
or if a claim is paid under your Terminal Illness cover and premiums for this benefit
are no longer payable.
4
Money For Them Plan – Policy Terms & Conditions V1.6 – 01 Apr 2022
6. If you miss a payment
If you stop paying, your policy will stop 30 days after your first missed payment was
due, with no value and you will no longer be covered. We will contact you as soon as
you miss a payment to offer an alternative way to pay.
7. Changing your policy
There is currently no ability to make changes to this version of the policy.
If you need to make changes, you can cancel the policy and re-apply for a new policy.
We are working to update our website to enable changes to be made to the policy.
8. How to claim
For a terminal illness
To claim, you or your representative must contact us in writing or by telephone,
within 6 months of a terminal illness being diagnosed. See the “How to Contact Us”
section for details.
You or your representative will be asked to complete a claim form and we could also
ask for evidence to support the diagnosis. If we ask for a medical examination this will
be at the Insurer’s cost.
All diagnoses and medical opinions must come from a medical specialist who:
a) holds an appointment as a Consultant at a hospital in the UK;
b) is accepted by the Insurer’s Chief Medical Officer; and
c) is a specialist in an area of medicine appropriate to the cause of the claim.
Once your claim is accepted by the Insurer, it will pay the sum assured to the person
who is legally entitled to it and we will refund any premiums paid between the date
meeting the terminal illness policy definition.
The benefit ends when the Insurer pays the claim and the Insurer will have no further
liability under the benefit following such payment.
If the Insurer does not accept a terminal illness claim, this will not prevent a future
claim being accepted. It is therefore important to pay every month and keep your
policy in force while a terminal illness claim is being assessed. These will be refunded
to you if your claim is paid.
5
Money For Them Plan – Policy Terms & Conditions V1.6 – 01 Apr 2022
For death
The claimant must notify us of the death of the life assured, either in writing or by
telephone. See the How To Contact Us section for details.
The Insurer will only pay the claim when it has received proof of the death and
appropriate documentation confirming that the person claiming is legally entitled to
do so. The Insurer will pay the sum assured to the person who is legally entitled to it.
The policy will end when the claim is paid and the Insurer will have no further liability
under the policy following such payment.
9. When are you not covered?
You will not be covered if within the first year of the policy, the life insured dies as a
result of:
- Suicide or,
- Intentional self-injury or,
- An event where, in our reasonable opinion, the life insured took their own life.
If a suicide verdict is not given we may decide in our reasonable opinion that the life
insured has taken their own life. We will take into account:
- The method and timing of death.
- The evidence available from the time and place of death.
- Any documentation left by the deceased or available from others.
- Previous medical history that we are reasonably entitled to obtain.
The Insurer may not pay a claim for Life Insurance or Terminal Illness and has the
right to cancel your policy, if at the time you completed your application or when a
claim is made, you did not answer our questions truthfully, accurately and completely
to the best of your knowledge and/or you do not provide all the information we ask
for.
You must provide truthful and accurate information when applying for Life Insurance.
This is because the Life Insurance Policy relates to your health.
We rely on the information you provide online to assess the risks of offering you a Life
Insurance Policy. To support this assessment we may need to review your medical
records.
Under the Access to Medical Reports Act 1988, or if you live in Northern Ireland the
Access to Personal Files and Medical Reports (Northern Ireland) Order 1991, Money
For Them (like other life insurance companies) can request medical reports about you
from medical practitioners.
Money For Them needs your permission to review your medical records.
6
Money For Them Plan – Policy Terms & Conditions V1.6 – 01 Apr 2022
When you apply online for Life Insurance we will ask you for permission to review
your medical records. Unfortunately, without your permission to review your medical
records, you won’t be able to purchase instant online Life Insurance.
Assuming you provide permission to review your medical records and purchase our
instant online Life Insurance, if Money For Them needs to review your medical
records, we will contact you via email asking for your GP contact details.
Money For Them will give you 60 days (from the day we email asking for GP details)
to provide your GP contact details. We will send you reminders during the 60 days.
After 60 days, if Money For Them has not received your GP contact details, your
Insurance Policy with Money For Them will be cancelled and we will not refund any
monthly payments. We will notify you via email if we want to cancel your Life
Insurance and give you another 30 days to provide us with GP contact details.
You can complain
If you have a complaint about your policy, please contact us in the first instance by
calling +44 (0)20 3962 0003. We will try to resolve the matter over the phone within
three days. If your complaint is not resolved to your satisfaction within three days we
will send you a written acknowledgment of your complaint, together with the next
steps we will be taking to resolve it. If you prefer to put your complaint in writing
please send it to The Customer Relations Manager, Money For Them c/o Certua
Protect Limited, 27 Corsham Street, London, United Kingdom, N1 6DR.
After four weeks, you will be sent either a final response or a letter explaining why
your complaint remains unresolved and advising when you will be contacted again.
If you have not received a final response after eight weeks of making your complaint
you will be sent a letter explaining the reason for the delay and advising you of your
right to complain to the Financial Ombudsman. If your complaint cannot be resolved,
you may refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service within six months
of receiving the final response letter.
Complaints which the Insurer is required to resolve will be passed on to them by us.
We will let you know when we do this. The address is Financial Ombudsman Service,
Exchange Tower, London, E14 9SR. The website address is www.financialombudsman.org.uk.
Email: complaint.info@financial–ombudsman.org.uk or call 0800 023 4567.
Following the complaints procedure does not affect your rights to take legal
proceedings.
7
Money For Them Plan – Policy Terms & Conditions V1.6 – 01 Apr 2022
10. Online dispute resolution
We always try to resolve any complaint to put things right. However, if you have
already contacted us and we have not resolved your complaint to your satisfaction,
you may wish to use the European Commission’s Online Dispute Resolution service.
This is an online portal designed to help consumers who have bought goods or
services online to conduct dispute resolution, in any of the official languages of the
European Union, which will then be forwarded to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
11. Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)
Your policy is covered by the FSCS. You may be entitled to compensation from the
scheme if we or the Insurer cannot meet our or its obligations under your policy.
This depends on the type of business and the circumstances of the claim. For more
information visit www.fscs.org.uk or call 0800 678 1100.
12. Solvency II Directive
Under this directive, we are required to provide you with a Solvency and Financial
Condition Report, which you can access via our website.
https://www.scottishfriendly.co.uk/about-us/ solvency-two
13. General conditions
Changing your details
You need to let us know if your contact details change.
Incorrect details
If the life assured’s date of birth in the policy schedule is incorrect, the terms of the
policy shall be cancelled and reissued based on terms that would have applied if the
correct date of birth had been given. We are entitled to cancel this policy if it would
not have been issued if the correct date of birth had been given.
We rely on the information provided to us during your online application. If any of
the information you provide is untrue or incomplete and would have affected our
decision to provide your policy we may change the terms of your policy, change your
premiums or cancel your policy and refund the premiums you have paid (without
interest).
We may make changes to the policy terms and conditions that we reasonably
consider appropriate due to a change in any applicable legislation, regulation or
taxation. In such cases we will notify you in advance of any changes being made. We
aim to give you at least 60 days’ notice in advance of any change.
8
Money For Them Plan – Policy Terms & Conditions V1.6 – 01 Apr 2022
If you are not happy with any change we make you can cancel your policy.
All policy communication will be in English.
Cooling off - cancelling
You have a 30 day cooling off period to change your mind. If you cancel within this
period, we will refund any premiums you have paid.
The cooling off period begins on the later of:
1. The day we tell you when your policy will start and
2. The day you receive your policy documents.
You can still cancel the policy after the cooling off period ends, but we won’t refund
your premiums. If you do this, you won’t be able to make a claim.
Eligibility
You must be at least 18 years old and younger than 55 to apply for this policy. At the
time of applying you must:
• Be currently physically living in the UK.
• Regard the UK as the location of your main residence and have no current
intention of moving outside of the UK permanently.
• Be a citizen of the UK or have been granted permission to settle permanently
in the UK or have been given settled or pre-settled status us the EU
Settlement scheme.
You need to tell us if you move outside of the UK and your main residence is outside
of the UK. We may need to change, reduce or remove some of your policy terms.
Payments
All payments should be paid in GBP from a UK bank account and all payments will be
made in GBP to a UK bank account.
9
Money For Them Plan – Policy Terms & Conditions V1.6 – 01 Apr 2022
14. Glossary
Application
The application you make when you wish to purchase a policy from us. We will ask
you a number of questions and calculate how much you need to pay. These questions
form part of your application.
Benefit
A benefit is defined as:
• Life Insurance
• Terminal illness cover
Claim
A claim under the policy.
Insurer
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited.
Life assured
The person named in the policy schedule and covered by your policy.
Life insurance
This benefit covers the life assured for a specific policy term. In the event of death or
terminal illness occurring within the policy term the sum assured will be paid.
Payment details
Your payment details which are part of your policy and detail your monthly payments.
Period of cover
The period of time from the policy start date and the policy expiry date shown in the
policy schedule.
Policy
The policy terms and conditions, policy schedule, statement of facts and payment
details issued by us.
Policy exclusions
Specific activities that are not covered under this policy and shown (where applicable)
in the policy schedule.
10
Money For Them Plan – Policy Terms & Conditions V1.6 – 01 Apr 2022
Policy expiry date
The date the policy ends. Once a policy ends no further benefits or premiums are
payable.
Policy schedule
A schedule issued as part of this policy containing details of your cover.
Policy start date
The date when the policy starts, as shown on your policy schedule.
Policy term
The length of time your policy will run for.
Policy terms and conditions
These specify the terms of your policy in detail and should be kept safe and read
alongside the policy schedule we issue when your cover starts.
Premium
The amount you pay us as shown in your payment details.
Statement of facts
This lists the answers you gave us in your application. You need to check that the
information is accurate and correct before buying a policy. If you have not answered
the questions accurately and truthfully, then this may invalidate a claim.
Sum assured
Sum assured is the amount the Insurer will pay out if/when you claim. This amount
will not change and will remain the same for the duration of the policy.
Terminal illness
A definite diagnosis by an attending Consultant of an illness that satisfies both of the
following:
• The illness either has no known cure or has progressed to the point where it cannot
be
cured; and
• In the opinion of the attending Consultant and our medical officer, the illness is
expected to lead to death within 12 months.