Golden Charter Funeral Protection Policy Document
Underwritten by CUNA Mutual Life Assurance (Europe) Limited
Registered in Ireland No 389174
Head Office at The Harcourt Building, Harcourt Street, Dublin 2, Ireland
CUNA Mutual Life Assurance (Europe) Limited is authorised by the Central Bank of Ireland
Contents
DEFINITIONS Page 2
WHO QUALIFIES Page 2
AMENDMENTS Page 3
PAYMENT OF PREMIUM Page 3
POLICY END DATE Page 4
COVER END DATE Page 4
WHAT WE WILL PAY Page 4
WHAT WE WILL NOT PAY/ EXCLUSIONS Page 5
GENERAL PROVISIONS Page 6
DEFINITIONS
As used in this Policy Document, these words and terms shall have the following meanings:
ACCIDENTAL DEATH means loss of life occurring during the term of the policy solely through violent external means
and independently of all other means.
BENEFIT or means the amount We will pay upon the death of the Insured Person in accordance with the Cover
BENEFIT AMOUNT Level the Policyholder has selected.
COVER END DATE means the date from which the Insured Person is no longer covered under the policy.
COVER LEVEL means one of the Benefit options available as selected by the Policyholder upon application of the
policy.
INSURED PERSON means a Plan Holder under a Golden Charter funeral plan, who qualifies for cover under the
policy, who is named on the Policy Schedule as being covered under the policy and for whom
monthly premium is being paid.
POLICY END DATE means the date when the policy ends. See ‘Policy End Date’ section for full details.
POLICY START DATE The Start Date of this policy is shown on the Policy Schedule. The Policy Start Date will always
be the first day of the month following acceptance of the policy application by Us.
The insurance for the Insured Person becomes effective on this date.
SCHEDULE OR The Policy Schedule issued to the Policyholder by the Insurer in a format agreed (which may be
POLICY SCHEDULE electronically). The Schedule will provide the policy number, policy start date, the name, date of
birth and gender of the Insured Person, the benefit amount and the monthly premium amount.
SIX (6) MONTH means the period for which an Insured Person is not eligible for full Benefits. An Insured Person
WAITING PERIOD will be subject to a Six (6) Month Waiting Period from the Policy Start Date. During this period
Benefit under the policy will be limited to a return of premiums paid except in the case of an
Accidental Death that is not excluded under the terms of the policy.
UK OR UNITED England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland
KINGDOM
WE, US, OUR or means CUNA Mutual Life Assurance (Europe) Limited.
INSURER
POLICYHOLDER means Golden Charter Limited, to whom this policy is issued and who is named as Policyholder
on the Policy Schedule.
WHO QUALIFIES
APPLICATION
This policy is only available for applications from Golden Charter. The Policyholder may name one Insured Person to be
covered under the policy. To be eligible for cover the Insured Person must at the time they are added to the policy be:
(1) a Plan Holder under a Golden Charter Funeral Plan
(2) age 50 to 75, and
(3) resident in the United Kingdom.
AGE LIMIT
The maximum age for the Insured person at the Policy Start date is 75.
If an Insured Person misstates their age, the Benefit, if any, will be determined in accordance with their correct age.
AMENDMENTS
Neither the Cover Level nor the Insured Person can be changed after the Policy Start Date.
The Policyholder may cancel the policy at any time by giving notice (See section POLICY END DATE below).
PAYMENT OF PREMIUM
WHO PAYS THE PREMIUM
Premium payments are payable by the Policyholder. The monthly premium will be collected from the Plan Holder by direct
debit on behalf of the Policyholder. Premium is payable until the Insured Person reaches their 90th birthday. After this, cover
will continue but no further premiums are payable.
The monthly premium will be collected by direct debit from a bank account held in the United Kingdom.
The Policyholder will be liable for payment of any premium due to Us for the period up to the Policy End Date.
PREMIUM AMOUNT
The monthly premium is calculated based on the Cover Level chosen by the Policyholder and the age and gender of the
Insured Person at the start date of the policy, for the duration of the cover.
The net premium amount for the Insured Person will remain constant for the duration of the policy (up to the Insured
Person’s 90th Birthday).
There are currently no taxes applicable to the Net Premium and the Gross Premium is equal to the Net Premium.
PREMIUM RATE ADJUSTMENTS
Gross Premium rates may only be changed if a change in legislation or taxation materially affects the policy. If We need to
change the Gross premium rate, We will give the Policyholder sixty (60) days advance written notice.
WHEN PREMIUM IS DUE
Premium for each month of insurance is due and payable to Us on the 1st day of each month by direct debit from a bank
account held in the United Kingdom.
GRACE PERIOD
This policy has a Grace Period of 30 days which means that if the premium is not paid on or before the date it is due we will
seek collection on two (2) further occasions during the Grace Period. During the Grace Period the policy will remain in force.
After three (3) failed collections, the policy will be suspended. The policy can be re-instated if the outstanding premium is
paid within two (2) months of the end of the Grace Period. If the outstanding premium is not paid within three (3) months of
the due date, the policy will be cancelled and there will be no refund of premium.
PREMIUM DEDUCTIONS
If an Insured Person dies during a Grace Period when premium is due but has not been paid, the premium will be deducted
from the Benefit Amount.
POLICY END DATE
TERM OF INSURANCE
This policy continues in force until the death of the Insured Person unless the Policy End Date occurs before then in
accordance with the Policy End Date provisions listed below.
CANCELLATION RIGHTS
The Policyholder may cancel this policy at any time by sending a written cancellation request to Us at: CUNA Mutual Life
Assurance (Europe) Limited, 50 Kings Hill Avenue, Kings Hill, West Malling, Kent, ME19 4JX. Fax: 0845 2711473. The
cancellation will take effect on the first day of the month following our receipt of the Policyholder’s written cancellation
request.
COOLING-OFF PERIOD
If the Policyholder cancels the policy within thirty (30) days of receiving the Policy Document or within thirty (30) days of
the Policy Start Date, whichever is later, We will cancel the policy and refund any premiums paid and the Policyholder will
not be eligible to make a claim under the policy. Any refund of premium will be paid to the bank account from which We
collected the premium.
OUR RIGHTS TO CANCEL THE POLICY
The policy may be cancelled by Us if the Policyholder or the Insured Person fail to pay premiums when due or if the
Policyholder ceases to have an insurable interest in the Insured Person.
POLICY END DATE
This policy and cover for the Insured Person will end at the Policy End Date, which occurs:
(1) On the first day of the month following Our receipt of the Policyholder’s written cancellation request; or
(2) When the Policyholder fails to pay the premium in accordance with the terms of this policy; or
(3) On the date of the death of the Insured Person covered by the policy.
COVER END DATE
COVER END DATE
All insurance for an Insured Person covered by the policy will end at the Policy End Date.
WHAT WE WILL PAY
HOW MUCH DO WE PAY
The Policyholder is entitled to have a Benefit Amount paid on the death of the Insured Person covered under the policy. The
Benefit Amount is based on the Cover Level chosen by the Policyholder at the time of application This is shown on the
Policy Schedule.
The Benefit Amount will increase by 3.25% on each anniversary of the policy start date.
WHO GETS THE PROCEEDS
The Benefit will be paid to the Policyholder for the purpose of meeting the cost of funeral services provided in respect of the
Insured Person.
If funeral services are not provided by the Policyholder for the Insured Person, then the Benefit will be paid to the
Policyholder on the basis that it will be paid to the Insured Person’s estate.
PROOF OF DEATH
Proof of death of the Insured Person must be submitted to Us within two (2) years of the occurrence of death. If notice and/or
proof cannot reasonably be given within the period, the claim will not be invalidated if it is shown to have not been
reasonably possible to give notice and/or proof, prior to the date the claim is first presented.
HOW TO MAKE A CLAIM
The Policyholder can make a claim by phoning our Golden Charter Funeral Protection Claims Team on 0870 1433504. A
claim must be notified to Us within 2 years of the event giving rise to the claim. If a claim is not presented to Us within two
(2) years of the death of the Insured Person, the claim will not be invalidated if it is shown to have not been reasonably
possibly to give notice and/or proof prior to the date it is first presented.
The Policyholder or the beneficiaries of the Insured Person, will need to provide Us with the information required to support
the claim. Because this will include sensitive information it cannot be processed unless a consent form in the specified format
is received.
For proof of a death claim, the Policyholder or the beneficiaries of the Insured Person, must send Us certified copies of:
(a) the death certificate,
(b) proof of age, and
(c) an original claim statement, and
(d) in the case of accidental death, details of the accident (including any police reports), and
(d) proof of the identity of the person to whom the Benefit is due to be paid (as per the ‘Who Gets the Proceeds’ section
above)
(e) proof that the funeral service was provided by the Policyholder, if applicable.
SETTLEMENT
Settlement of a valid claim shall be made by Us not later than 2 months after the receipt of all information reasonably
required by Us to adjudicate the claim, including the certified copies and/or medical information.
WHAT WE WILL NOT PAY/ EXCLUSIONS
MISSTATED AGE OR GENDER
If an Insured Person’s age or gender has been misstated, We may not pay a claim or may reduce the Benefit Amount to that
which would be payable based on the Insured Person’s correct age or gender and the premium paid.
NO DUPLICATION OF COVERAGE
In no event shall an Insured Person be insured on more than one (1) Golden Charter Funeral Protection policy. An Insured
Person is eligible for cover under only one (1) policy issued by Us. If an Insured Person is covered on more than one (1)
policy, the Benefit will only be paid on the policy that was claimed first.
WAR / TERRORISM / NUCLEAR
We will pay no Benefits if an Insured Person’s death results directly or indirectly from (i) war, including undeclared or civil
war, warlike action by a military force, insurrection, revolution, terrorism, usurped power or action taken by governmental
authority in hindering or defending against any of these or (ii) nuclear reaction, radiation or radioactive contamination.
INITIAL EXCLUSION
No Benefit will be paid if death occurs within the first 6 months following the Policy Start Date except in the case of
Accidental Death.
In the case of non-accidental death within the first 6 months or if an accidental death exclusion applies then the amount paid
will be limited to the premiums received.
ACCIDENTAL DEATH EXCLUSION
The accidental death benefit amount will not be paid if the Insured Person
(i) dies more than 24 months after the accident happened.
(ii) dies after an accident but the accidental injury was not the only cause of death.
(iii) If the accidental injury is caused or made worse by any of the following:
 Because of the Insured Person’s own deliberate actions;
 While under the influence of, or resulting from the effects of, alcohol, solvents or
drugs or of any medication taken other than prescribed by a doctor;
 While flying, including gliding and ballooning, unless as a passenger on a fullylicensed passenger-carrying aircraft;
 While taking part in a riot or civil commotion;
 While being involved in a war, revolution or similar event;
 While taking part in any hazardous pursuit where there is a greater than normal
risk of injury or death. These include, but are not limited to, hang-gliding,
parachuting, bobsleighing, white-water rafting, mountaineering, motor car and
motor cycle racing and scuba diving;
 While having treatment or surgery unless it is because of an accidental injury;
 While taking part in any criminal act; or
 Because they do not follow a doctor’s advice.
TIME LIMITATION
If this policy is terminated, there will be a period of two (2) years from the date of Termination during which the
Policyholder may submit a claim that was incurred during the term of the policy.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
THE CONTRACT
This policy, with the application and any attached rider or endorsement, is the entire insurance contract.
AMENDMENTS
This contract may be changed by Us at any time by giving the Policyholder sixty (60) days notice in advance if there is a
change is applicable regulatory, legal or tax requirements, including an increase in Insurance Premium Tax (IPT).
A change cannot take away any rights of the Policyholder which arose prior to the time the change was made. No change
will be valid unless signed by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or Our Actuary. An agent of Ours cannot
change this contract, waive any of its terms or make any promise that will be binding on Us.
MATERIAL FACTS
All statements made by any person in relation to their eligibility for cover under a Golden Charter Funeral Protection policy
shall be made in utmost good faith. The Policyholder is responsible for ensuring that all statements given are complete and
accurate and for disclosing all material facts to Us when applying for this insurance. This is also the case for the Insured
Person covered on the policy. A material fact is one that is likely to influence Us in the assessment and acceptance of the
Policyholder’s application e.g. being resident outside the United Kingdom or providing an incorrect date of birth or gender.
Please note that if the information provided by the Policyholder or the Insured Person covered under the policy is incorrect or
the Policyholder fails to disclose any material information to Us when applying for this insurance, We could:
• cancel the policy;
• declare the contract to be not valid;
• refuse to pay part or all of any claim under the policy; or
• use any other rights We may have under the policy
PAYMENT OF BENEFIT
Any Benefits under this policy will be paid to the Policyholder once We receive written proof of death (see ‘Who Gets the
Proceeds’). If funeral services are not provided for the Insured Person, then the Benefit will be paid to the Policyholder on the
basis that it will be paid to the Insured Person’s estate. Our payments will completely discharge Our liability to the extent of
the payment.
LAW APPLICABLE
The law of England and Wales applies to this policy. All correspondence will be in English.
CUSTOMER CARE
It is Our objective at all times to provide the Policyholder with first class service but there may be times when the
Policyholder feels that this has not been achieved. The Policyholder can make a complaint by:
 Phoning Us on 0870 1433504, or
 Writing to Us at CUNA Mutual Life Assurance (Europe) Limited, 50 Kings Hill Avenue, Kings Hill, West Malling,
Kent, ME19 4JX, or
 Faxing Us on 0845 2711473.
If the Policyholder complains, it will not affect the Policyholder’s legal rights.
DATA PROTECTION
The Policyholder or the Insured Person have a right to request in writing to see personal information, which is held by Us and
Our agents. There may be a charge if the Policyholder or the Insured Person wants to do this. For more details write to:
The Data Protection Co-ordinator, CUNA Mutual Life Assurance (Europe) Limited, The Harcourt Building, Harcourt Street,
Dublin 2, Ireland.
Information the Policyholder supplies may be used for administration purposes by Us, Our associated companies and Our
agents. We may pass the information to regulatory organisations which will monitor whether We are keeping to regulatory
rules or codes. The information supplied by the Policyholder may also be used for research or for preventing crime. It may be
transferred to any country (including countries outside the EU) for any of these purposes.
It is the Policyholder’s responsibility to ensure that the consent of the Insured Person for the processing of their data by Us
has been fully and fairly obtained.
SENSITIVE INFORMATION
To assess the Policyholder’s application We may need to collect information that the Data Protection Act defines as
‘sensitive’ (such as a person’s medical history or criminal convictions). By taking out this policy, the Policyholder gives
permission to this information being processed by Us, Our associated companies and Our agents. It may be transferred to any
country (including countries outside the EU) for this purpose.
PREVENTING FRAUD
We may make the information that the Policyholder has provided at the time of applying for this insurance available to other
insurers for claims purposes. Insurers and their agents may also share information the Policyholder has provided to them and
may carry out checks against publicly available information as necessary.
Underwritten by CUNA Mutual Life Assurance (Europe) Limited
Registered in Ireland No 389174
Head Office at The Harcourt Building, Harcourt Street, Dublin 2, Ireland
CUNA Mutual Life Assurance (Europe) Limited is authorised by the Central Bank of Ireland