Life
Policy Wording
September 2016
Your Life Insurance
Over 50s Whole of Life Product
Important Documents
It is important that you:-
• read and understand this document and the enclosed schedule
• check that you are eligible to take out the policy
• keep these documents safe so you can refer to them in the future.
Over 50s Whole of Life Product
The following pages and the enclosed schedule contain the details of your policy and the
contractual terms of your cover. These documents are legally binding between you and us.
The words listed on pages 3 and 4 of this booklet have special meanings when they appear in the
policy in bold text. It is very important that you refer to these special meanings when you read
the policy as they will help you understand the cover. We have tried to make these meanings as
understandable as possible. If there is anything that you do not understand from these meanings
or if there is, at any time, anything else in the policy on which you would like to have more
information, then please contact our helpline on 0333 130 4557.
The policy is underwritten and administered by Covéa Life Limited.
Contact Us . . .
If you:-
• want to make a claim
• need help or clarification on your cover
• need to notify us of a change in circumstance
• wish to complain
By writing to
Protection Dept,
Covéa Life Limited,
50 Kings Hill Avenue,
Kings Hill, West Malling,
Kent ME19 4JX
Or calling us on
0333 130 4557
Calls may be recorded and monitored for
training and quality purposes.
Welcome...
to your Over 50s Whole of Life Product
1
Assurity
This Over 50s Whole of Life Product is arranged
for you by Assurity, a trading name of Assured
Futures Limited. The policy is underwritten and
administered by Covéa Life Limited.
Type of Cover Provided
Our Over 50s Whole of Life Product has two
elements to it:
• If you were to suffer an accidental death
during the first three years of your policy we
will pay the cover amount.
• If you were to die after you have had the
policy for three years or more we will pay
the cover amount.
Eligibility
Acceptance for cover is guaranteed provided
that you are at the start date:
• between 50 and 80 years of age (both
inclusive); and
• a UK resident.
You can take out more than one of our Over
50s Whole of Life Products provided the
maximum monthly premium payable under
all such policies does not exceed £100. Any
policies issued in excess of this amount will not
be regarded as valid and cancelled.
Significant Features and Benefits
• If you meet the eligibility criteria your
acceptance is guaranteed.
• The level of cover amount you have chosen
is set out in the policy schedule and will be
fixed for the cover period.
• Your premium is fixed from the start date
and we promise not to increase it.
• On your 90th birthday you will no longer
have to pay any further premiums but your
cover will continue for the rest of your life.
• The cover amount will be paid if you suffer
an accidental death during the first three
years of your policy.
• The cover amount will be paid if you die
after the first three years of your policy
regardless of the cause of death.
Exclusions and Limitations
• If you die during the first three years other
than as a result of accidental death we
will not pay the cover amount but will pay
out an amount equal to the premiums you
have paid.
• There are certain exclusions for accidental
death detailed in ‘Your Cover’ section.
• Our Over 50s Whole of Life Product is not
a savings or investment plan and it has no
cash in or surrender value at any time.
• Depending on how long you live the total
premiums you pay us may be greater than
the cover amount.
• Inflation will reduce the value of the cover
amount over time.
Over 50s Whole of Life Product
Contents
Definitions 3
Making a Claim 4
Is Something Wrong? 5
Your Cover 6
General Conditions 8
2
Over 50s Whole of Life Product
Definitions
In this policy the words listed below have the following specific meanings when they appear in bold
type with or without an initial capital letter:
3
Protection Dept
0333 130 4557
accidental bodily injury
means physical injury resulting from an
external violent and visible means solely and
directly from a sudden and unforeseen event
which happens by chance after the start date.
It does not include:
• any sickness, disease or naturally occurring
condition or degenerative process
• an intentional self-inflicted injury or suicide
(while sane or insane)
• taking drugs, drinking alcohol or consuming
poisonous substances
• actively taking part in any riot, civil
commotion, uprising or war (whether
declared or not) or related act or incident
• actively taking part in any criminal act
• taking part in any hazardous pursuits
(including for example engaging in motor
sports (including motorcars, motorcycles
and speedboats), mountaineering (in
which use of ropes and guides is needed),
potholing, diving using artificial breathing
apparatus)
• taking part in any form of aviation,
including travelling in an aircraft (except
as a fare paying customer in a commercial
licenced aircraft).
accidental death
means death that occurs solely from (and
within 90 days of) an accidental bodily injury.
cover
means the benefits received under the policy in
relation to the events detailed in ‘Your Cover’
section.
cover amount
means the amount that we would pay for a
successful claim under the policy, as shown in
the policy schedule.
cover period
means the period beginning on the start date
and continuing for your whole life unless your
policy is cancelled.
policy
shall include these terms and conditions
and the policy schedule and any changes to
these documents subsequently made after
the start date.
policy schedule
means the schedule which shows the
personalised features of your cover and which
forms part of the policy.
premium
means the monthly payment you need to pay
to us for providing the cover.
start date
is the date cover starts under the policy which
is detailed in the policy schedule.
terms and conditions
means the terms and conditions detailed in
this document.
UK resident
means physically living in the UK and either
a citizen of the UK or have been granted
permission to permanently settle in the UK.
United Kingdom or UK
means England, Scotland, Wales, Northern
Ireland but excluding the Channel Islands and
the Isle of Man.
we, us or our
means Covéa Life Limited.
you or your
means the person who applied for and is
insured under this policy and named as the
“policyholder” in the policy schedule.
Over 50s Whole of Life Product
Making a Claim
3
Contact us
Please ensure you have your policy number, home postcode and
the reason for the claim ready.
1
Making the right
first impression
Check
your cover
Check the policy booklet and schedule to ensure you have the
relevant cover.
2
Get the
following info
ready
 By writing to
Protection Dept,
Covéa Life Limited,
50 Kings Hill Avenue,
Kings Hill, West Malling,
Kent ME19 4JX
Or calling us on
0333 134 4557
In the event of a claim the person making the claim should contact us to tell us about your
death as soon as they can. They can contact us either by phone or in writing – please see
below for our contact details.
Before we can pay out the claim, we will require the receipt of our completed claim form
together with certain information and proof to validate the claim. We will only ask for such
information and proof we need to process a claim.
Examples of the type of information and proof we may require include:
• proof of death or accidental death e.g. your original death certificate or evidence of
any fatal accident such as a coroner’s report, police report, list of missing persons, airline
passenger manifest
• proof of the right of claimant to receive cover amount e.g. grant of probate, your will,
letters of representation or administration.
4
Over 50s Whole of Life Product
Is Something Wrong?
Please tell us if there is something wrong.
For full details of our complaints procedure, please contact us. Or you can download a copy from
our website at www.coveainsurance.co.uk/complaints
If you are not satisfied with the service we have provided, please tell us so that we can do
our best to resolve the problem. You can contact us in the following ways:
by phone on
0333 130 4557
or you can write to us at
Protection Dept, Covéa Life Limited, 50 Kings Hill Avenue, Kings Hill, West
Malling, ME19 4JX
Please note we may record and monitor telephone calls for training and monitoring purposes.
We are always here for you but so that we can help you as quickly as possible, please provide or
have these things ready for us:
• your policy number
• your claim reference number
• your daytime and evening phone numbers
You may be eligible to refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. For further
details, they can be contacted at:
Write to:
The Financial Ombudsman Service, Exchange Tower, London, E14 9SR
Phone:
0300 123 9123 from a mobile or 0800 023 4567 from a landline
Email:
complaint.info@financial-ombudsman.org.uk
Website:
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk
Your legal rights are not affected if you take any of the steps shown above.
Protection Dept
0333 130 4557
5
Over 50s Whole of Life Product
Your Cover
1. During the first three years of your policy
What you’re covered for in the first three years What you’re not covered for in the first three years
• You are covered if you suffer an accidental
death.
• If you die other than from an accidental
death we will pay a sum equal to the
premiums you have paid.
You are not covered if your death:
• is not an accidental death
• occurs more than 90 days after the
accidental bodily injury took place
• is caused directly or indirectly by any of
the following:
- any sickness, disease or naturally
occurring condition or degenerative
process
- an intentional self-inflicted injury or
suicide (while sane or insane)
- taking drugs, drinking alcohol or
consuming poisonous substances
- actively taking part in any riot, civil
commotion, uprising or war (whether
declared or not) or related act or incident
- actively taking part in any criminal act
- taking part in any hazardous pursuits
(including for example engaging in
motor sports (including motorcars,
motorcycles and speedboats),
mountaineering (in which use of ropes
and guides is needed), potholing, diving
using artificial breathing apparatus)
- taking part in any form of aviation,
including travelling in an aircraft
(except as a fare paying customer in a
commercial licenced aircraft).
6
2. After the first three years of your policy
You are covered regardless of what causes your
death. So you are covered if you die of disease,
natural causes, illness or anything else.
Your policy will continue for the rest of your
life provided you keep paying the premiums
when they are due. You should read all
available information carefully to ensure that it
meets your needs.
3. Cover amount
The amount payable under this policy is
determined by the level of cover you have
selected which is stated in the policy schedule
and is guaranteed not to change for the cover
period. The cover amount shall be paid as a
one-off lump sum payment.
If a valid claim is made under this policy then
we will always pay out the cover amount.
You can take out more than one of our Over
50s Whole of Life Products provided the
maximum monthly premium payable under
all such policies does not exceed £100. Any
policies issued in excess of this amount will
not be regarded as valid and cancelled. If we
cancel your policy as a result of the £100
limit having been exceeded we will return
all premiums paid for the cancelled policy,
without interest.
4. Period of cover
The cover starts on the start date and will
continue for the rest of your life provided
you pay your premium as set out in ‘General
Conditions’ section.
Over 50s Whole of Life Product
Your Cover Protection Dept
0333 130 4557
7
Premiums
1. Paying your premiums
Your premium is guaranteed not to change for
the duration of your policy.
You must pay premiums from the start date
when these are due, as shown in the policy
schedule until the earliest of the following:
• your death; or
• you turn 90 years of age.
Premiums are payable monthly by direct debit.
All direct debits need to be paid to us from
a bank or building society in the UK in the
currency of the UK or as otherwise approved
by us.
2. Cancellation of policy
If at any time you don’t pay your premium
when it is due, we will write to you to let you
know and will allow you 30 days to pay the
outstanding premium.
If you don’t pay two consecutive months
premium your policy will be cancelled and you
will get no premium refund.
We will let you know if we cancel your policy
due to non-payment of premium.
If a claim is made during the cover period
when premium remains due, we will deduct
the unpaid premium from any cover amount.
No claim will be payable if your death occurs
after your policy is cancelled.
3. Premium refunds and cash-in value
The policy has no cash-in or surrender value.
In the event of any overpayment of premium,
we will refund any such overpayment.
Cancellation rights
You have a 30 day ‘cooling off’ period during
which you can change your mind. If you
cancel your policy within this period, we will
refund any premiums you have paid. You can
still cancel your policy at any time after the
‘cooling off’ period ends, but we won’t refund
your premiums.
If you wish to cancel your policy, please
contact us.
Policy changes
If your circumstances change, you need to
contact us. For example, if you move house or
cease to be a UK resident. If you are no longer
a UK resident, cover can continue unaffected
during the cover period provided that you
continue to pay the premium from a bank or
building society in the UK in the currency of
the UK or as otherwise approved by us.
We may make changes to these terms and
conditions that are reasonable where there
is any change in applicable law, regulation or
taxation. In such event we will give you 60
days’ notice in writing of any changes and how
these may impact you.
Over 50s Whole of Life Product
General Conditions
8
General matters
1. Trusts and transfers
You cannot transfer this policy to anyone else.
Depending on your circumstances, it may be
appropriate to place your policy into trust, you
should take independent professional legal
advice if you wish to do so.
2. False and misleading information
If you give false or inaccurate information
and we reasonably suspect fraud, this may
impact your cover and any entitlement to
receive the cover amount. We will record
this and the information will be available to
other organisations that have access to the
database(s). We can supply details of the
databases we access or contribute to, on
request.
3. Governing law
English law applies to this policy. Unless
otherwise agreed, the terms and conditions
and other information relating to this policy
will be in English.
4. Large print, Braille, audio material
In order to make our documentation
accessible, we are able to provide you with our
literature in audio, large print or Braille.
Please contact us if you require any of these
services to be provided.
5. Data protection
We hold data in accordance with the Data
Protection Act 1998. It may be necessary for
us to pass data to other organisations that
supply products or services associated with
this policy. In order to verify information,
or to prevent and detect fraud, we may
share information you give us with other
organisations and public bodies, including
the police, accessing and updating various
databases. The Data Protection Act 1998 gives
you the right to a copy of your personal data
held by us upon payment of a fee.
6. The Financial Services
Compensation Scheme (FSCS)
If we are unable to meet our liabilities
under this policy, you may be entitled
to compensation from the FSCS. Further
information can be obtained from the
Financial Services Compensation Scheme,
10th Floor, Beaufort House, 15 St Botolph
Street, London EC3A 7QU or by visiting
the FSCS website at www.fscs.org.uk or
telephoning FSCS on 0800 678 100 or 020
7741 4100.
7. Rights of third parties
We and you do not intend any term of this
policy to be enforceable by any third party
pursuant to the Contracts (Rights of Third
Parties) Act 1999 other than any option or
right conferred by this policy.
Over 50s Whole of Life Product
General Conditions Protection Dept
0333 130 4557
9
Contact
0333 130 4557
www.coveainsurance.co.uk
Protection Dept,
Covéa Life Limited
50 Kings Hill Avenue,
Kings Hill, West Malling,
Kent ME19 4JX
Covéa Life Limited.
Registered in England and Wales No. 911235.
Authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the
Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority
No. 202178. The registered address is 2 Norman Place, Reading, RG1 8DA
Assurity is a trading name of Assured Futures Ltd.
Assured Futures Ltd is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
These registration details can be confirmed on the FCA’s website, www.fca.gov.uk
or by contacting the FCA on 0800 111 6768.
Registered address: 2 Des Roches Square, Witney, OX28 4LE. Registration number: 3040737 KH5331.09.16
Life