
1
Bequest life insurance
The following pages together with the policy schedule and health & lifestyle questionnaire form the
contractual terms of the life cover. These documents are legally binding between the life insured and
Covéa Life Limited.
This policy meets the demands and needs of customers who wish to ensure that a cash lump sum is
payable in the event of death, or diagnosis of a terminal illness, that could be used to pay off a mortgage or ease the financial worries for the family of the life Insured.
As no advice or personal recommendation is given as to the suitability of the product, the life insured
will need to read the policy wording carefully to ensure the cover is right for their specific needs.
The words listed on page 4 of this document have specific meanings when they appear in the policy
in bold text. It is very important that the life insured refers to these specific meanings when they read
the policy as the definitions will help the life insured understand the cover. We have tried to make
these meanings as understandable as possible. If there is anything that you or the life insured find
difficult to understand within the policy documentation please do call our helpline on 020 3916 5433.
The policy is administered by Compass Underwriting Limited and underwritten by Covéa Life Limited.
Contact our administrator if you or the life insured . . .
• want to make a claim
• need help or clarification regarding the cover
• need to notify us of a change in circumstance
Calls may be recorded and monitored for training and quality purposes.
Email:
alexa@bequest.com
Telephone:
020 3916 5433
Address:
Compass Underwriting Limited, 30 Dukes Place, London, EC3A 7LP
2
Welcome...
to Bequest life insurance
Why choose Bequest life insurance?
This product has been designed to:
• provide a one-off cash lump sum if the life insured dies during the cover period; or
• if the life insured is diagnosed with a terminal illness that is expected to lead to the life insured’s
death within the next 12 months; whichever occurs first.
• provide fixed premiums which won’t change during the cover period;
• allow the life insured to choose level cover or decreasing cover; (explained in more detail below)
• allow more than one person to be covered under the policy.
What is the life insured’s eligibility?
To be eligible for this product at the start date the life insured must be:
• between 18 and 65 years of age (both inclusive); and
• a UK resident, for joint policies this applies to both lives insured.
What types of cover are available?
There are two different types of cover available. The type of cover the life insured selects will be
shown in the policy schedule.
• Level cover – this means the cover amount does not change over the cover period. It doesn’t
keep up with inflation so the cover amount may be worth less in the future.
• Decreasing cover – this means that after the start date the cover amount will reduce each
month and will be zero by the end of the term. The amount by which it goes down is the equivalent
to an annual interest rate of 8%.
3
Contents
Definitions 4
Making a claim 6
The cover 7
If things go wrong 9
General Conditions 11
Legal 14
4
Definitions
In this policy the words listed below have the
following specific meanings when they appear in
‘bold’ type with or without an initial capital letter:
Administrator
Means Compass Underwriting Limited who are
acting on behalf of Covéa Life Limited.
Attending Consultant
Means an appropriately qualified medical
specialist supervising the care of the life insured.
Chief Medical Officer
Means a qualified doctor employed or engaged
by us.
Cover
Means the benefits received under the policy in
relation to the events detailed in the ‘The Cover’
section.
Cover Amount
Means the amount that the life insured is
insured for as shown in the policy schedule.
Cover period
Means the period beginning on the start date
and ending on the expiry date.
Expiry date
Means the date when the policy naturally ends
as stated in the policy schedule.
Guaranteed Increase Option
Means the life insured has the option to increase
the cover amount, within certain limits, without
the need for further medical evidence, on the
occurrence of specified life events.
Joint life cover
Means the policy has been arranged to cover
two lives insured – usually the life insured and
their partner, spouse or civil partner, as shown in
the policy schedule.
Specified eligible events
Means when one of the following occurs;
• Marriage
• Civil Partnership
• Childbirth or adoption
• Increase to size or term of mortgage
• Promotion or job change with salary increase.
Life insured
Means the person whose life is covered under
this policy. If there is more than one life covered
(as shown in the policy schedule) this definition
covers all lives insured.
Personal representative
Means the executor, administrator, assignee,
trustee or other person who is entitled by law to
act on the life insured’s behalf upon their death.
Policy documentation
Means the Lifestyle questionnaire, policy
schedule and policy wording that form the
contract of insurance between the life insured
and Covéa Life Limited.
Policy schedule
Means the schedule which shows the
personalised features of the life insured’s cover
and which forms part of the policy.
Premium
Means the monthly payment the life insured
needs to pay to us for providing the cover.
Start date
Means the date cover starts under the policy
which is detailed in the policy schedule.
Terminal illness
Means the life insured has a definite diagnosis
of being terminally ill by an appropriate medical
specialist and
• There is no known cure or the illness has
progressed to the point where it cannot be
cured; and
• in the opinion of the attending consultant
and our chief medical officer the illness is
expected to lead to death within 12 months.
Terms and Conditions
Means the terms and conditions detailed in this
policy wording.
UK resident
Means the life insured must be living
permanently in the UK for at least 40 weeks in
every 52 week period at the start date as either
a citizen of the UK or a person who has been
granted permission to permanently settle in the
UK.
5
Definitions
continued
Underwriting process
The process undertaken to evaluate the lifestyle
of an applicant through the completion of
health and lifestyle questions, with the premium
payable reflecting the risk to the life insurer.
United Kingdom (UK)
Means England, Scotland, Wales and Northern
Ireland.
we, us or our
Means Covéa Life Limited.
you or your
Means the owner(s) of the policy who is legal
entitled to receive the amount of cover when a
valid claim is made. This may include trustee(s),
assignee(s) or personal representative(s)
(where appropriate) and may be the life insured.
6
Making a Claim
In the event of a claim the person making the claim should initially contact our adminstrator to
tell us about the life insured’s death or terminal illness as soon as they can. Our adminstrator
can be contacted either by email, online chat, phone or in writing – please see below for contact
details.
Before we can pay out the claim, we will need to receive a completed claim form together with
certain information and proof to validate the claim. We will only ask for the information and
proof we need to process a claim.
Examples of the type of information and proof we may require include:
• proof of the life insured’s age, for example their birth certificate if this was not provided
when the life insured applied for cover;
• proof of death or terminal illness e.g. original or certified copy of the death certificate
or evidence of any fatal accident such as a coroner’s report, police report, list of missing
persons, airline passenger manifest, report from the attending consultant who has
diagnosed the life insured with a terminal illness;
• proof of the right of the claimant to receive the cover amount e.g. grant of probate, life
insured’s will, trust deed, letters of representation or administration.
1
Making the right
first impression 1
Check
the cover
3
Contact
us
 Email:
alexa@bequest.com
Telephone:
020 3916 5433
In writing:
Compass Underwriting Limited, 30 Dukes Place, London, EC3A 7LP
Please have the policy number, life insured’s home postcode and the
reason for the claim ready.
Check the Policy documentation to ensure the relevant cover is in
place.
2
Get
ready
7
The Cover
1. What the life insured is covered
for
Death
In the event that the life insured dies during
the cover period this policy will pay the cover
amount, by way of a one-off cash payment.
Terminal illness
In the event that the life insured is diagnosed
with a terminal illness during the cover period,
the life insured can ask us to pay the cover
amount in advance of their death.
Claims will be accepted in the final year of
the policy provided that the life insured’s life
expectancy is less than 12 months even if
the life insured outlives the policy term (i.e.
diagnosis is received with 4 months to the expiry
of the policy).
For decreasing cover the claim is accepted at
the date it meets the terminal illness definition
and the claim amount is calculated at the value
of the last monthly decrease.
For joint life cover, the amount of cover is paid
when either life insured is diagnosed with a
terminal illness.
No terminal illness claim can be made after the
death of a life insured.
Cover type and amount
The life insured can choose level cover or
decreasing cover (explained in more detail on
page 2). The type of cover the life insured has
chosen will be shown in the policy schedule.
2. What is not covered?
We will not pay out the amount of cover more
than once. Where joint life cover is chosen this
will be when the first of the lives insured dies or
has a valid terminal illness claim.
If the life insured is diagnosed with a terminal
illness that doesn’t meet our definition.
Once a claim has been paid the policy will
automatically end.
We will not payout if the life insured reaches the
end of the policy without making a valid claim.
3. Minimum and Maximum Ages at
the start of the policy
The life insured must be between the ages of 18
to 65 inclusive.
4. Cover amount
The amount payable under this policy is
determined by the amount and type of cover the
life insured has selected which is stated in the
policy schedule.
The minimum sum assured is £5,000.
The maximum amount of cover under this policy
when added to the amount of cover the life
insured has under any of Covéa Life’s other life
insurance plans must not exceed:
£500,000 if the life insured is aged 18 to 40 on
the start date; or
£300,000 if the life insured is aged 41 to 50 on
the start date; or
£200,000 if the life insured is aged 51 to 60 on
the start date; or
£100,000 if the life insured is aged 61 to 65 on
the start date.
If the application is joint life, the age band for
the older applicant will be used to determine the
maximum sum assured.
5. How long is the life insured
covered for?
The life insured can choose a term of between 5
to 40 years subject to the life insured not being
older than 90 years of age at the expiry date. For
a joint policy this will be based on the age of the
older life insured.
6. Where is the life insured
covered?
The life insured is covered anywhere in the
world.
In support of a terminal illness claim the life
insured can be residing anywhere in the world
but the doctor/consultant has to be based in
one of the following countries:
United Kingdom, Isle of Man, the Channel
Islands, any of the countries of the European
Union, Switzerland, Iceland, Norway, USA, Canada,
Australia or New Zealand.
7. Period of cover
The cover starts on the start date and will end
on:
• The expiry of the cover period (as detailed
within the policy schedule); or the earliest of:
• Payment of the cover amount upon the
death of the life insured; or
8
• Payment of the cover amount upon
diagnosis of a terminal illness; or
• Cancellation of this policy either by the life
insured or by us in accordance with the
‘Cancellation rights’ paragraph of the General
Conditions section; or
• The policy has lapsed.
8. Who receives the cover amount
when a claim is submitted?
The cover amount upon death will be made
to the personal representative to distribute
according with the life insured’s will. If there is
no will the rules of intestacy will apply.
Please see www.gov.uk/inherits-someone-dieswithout-will.
For joint life cover it will be payable to the
surviving life insured
.
If the life insured submits a claim for terminal
illness and it meets our definition, the cover
amount will be made to the life insured
.
If the life insured arranges for the policy to be
assigned or placed in trust, the cover amount
will be paid to the assignee or trustee.
9. Will the cover amount be taxed?
The cover amount is usually free of all UK
income tax and capital gains tax. If the life
insured dies, the amount paid might be subject
to inheritance tax, depending on the total value
of the life insured’s estate. For more info on this
see: www.gov.uk/inheritance-tax
If the life insured resides outside the United
Kingdom at the time of a claim, the taxes of the
country of residence could apply to the cover
amount received (refer to Moving Abroad).
The Cover
continued
9
What will happen if you or the life insured complains?
• We will acknowledge the complaint promptly.
• We aim to resolve all complaints as quickly as possible.
Most customers’ concerns can be resolved quickly but occasionally more detailed enquiries are
needed. If this is likely, we will contact you or the life insured with an update and give you or the
life insured an expected date of response.
What to do if you or the life insured are unhappy
If you or the life insured are unhappy with any aspect of the administration of the policy
please contact our administrator on:
Telephone: 020 7398 0100
Or by email on: complaints@compassuw.co.uk
Or write to them at: Compass Underwriting Limited, 30 Dukes Place, London, EC3A 7LP
If you or the life insured are unhappy about a claim, you or the life insured can contact us in
the following ways:
by phone on 0330 134 8500

by email on customer.relations-wmg@coveainsurance.co.uk
or write to us at Protection Department, Covéa Life Limited, 50 Kings Hill Avenue, Kings
Hill, West Malling, Kent, ME19 4JX
Please note that we or our administrator may record and monitor telephone calls for training
and quality purposes.
If things go wrong
Our promise of service
Our goal is to give excellent service to all customers but we realise that things do go wrong
occasionally. We take all complaints very seriously and aim to resolve all our customer’s
problems promptly. To ensure the kind of service you or the life insured expect we welcome
your or the life insured’s feedback. We will record and analyse your or the life insured’s
comments to make sure we continually improve the service we offer.
10
What to do if you or the life insured are still not satisfied
If you or the life insured are still not satisfied then you may be able to refer the complaint to
the Financial Ombudsman Service. This can be within either six months of receiving the final
response letter or after 8 weeks if we or our administrator has not provided you or the life
insured with a final response.
Write to: The Financial Ombudsman Service, Exchange Tower, London, E14 9SR
Phone: 0300 123 9123 from a mobile or 0800 023 4567 from a landline
Email: complaint.info@financial-ombudsman.org.uk
Website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk
If things go wrong
continued
11
Paying the premiums
The life insured must pay the premiums from
the start date when these are due, as shown in
the policy schedule.
Premiums are payable monthly by direct debit.
All direct debits need to be paid to us from a
bank or building society in the UK in the currency
of the UK.
The premium is guaranteed not to change for
the duration of the policy (unless there are any
changes made to the cover).
Minimum Premium
A minimum premium will be payable when the
minimum cover amount is selected. The amount
payable will depend on the chosen term.
Stopping the premiums
If at any time a life insured doesn’t pay the
premium when it is due, our administrator
will write to the life insured and allow the
life insured 30 days to pay the outstanding
premium.
If the life insured doesn’t pay 2 consecutive
months premiums the policy will be cancelled.
Our administrator will let the life insured know
if we cancel the policy due to non-payment of
premium.
If a claim is made during the cover period when
a premium remains due, we will deduct the
unpaid premium from any cover amount.
A claim cannot be made if the event giving rise
to the claim occurred outside the cover period.
Re-starting the policy
If the policy is cancelled because the life
insured didn’t pay the premiums within the
periods set out in the ‘Stopping the premiums’
of this ‘General Conditions’ section, the life
insured can request that we re-start the policy.
So that we can re-start the policy, the life
insured will need to pay us all of the premiums
the life insured hasn’t paid. If the life insured
needs to re-start the policy, please contact our
administrator.
The policy can be reinstated up to 90 days after
a policy has lapsed. After 90 days the policy
cannot be reinstated.
Premium refunds and cash-in value
The policy has no cash-in or surrender value. In
the event of any overpayment of premium, our
administrator will refund any such overpayment.
Cancellation rights
The life insured has a 30 day ‘cooling off’ period
after the start date of the policy during which
the life insured can change their mind. If the
life insured cancels within this period, we will
refund any premiums the life insured has paid
as long as a claim has not been submitted. The
life insured can still cancel the policy at any
time after the ‘cooling off’ period ends, but we
won’t refund the premiums. If the life insured
wishes to cancel the policy, please contact our
administrator.
We can only cancel the policy:
• if the life insured hasn’t paid all the
premiums that are due as explained in the
‘Stopping the premiums’ paragraph of this
‘General Conditions’ section; or
• for the reasons provided in the ‘Information
the life insured has given us’ section.
Information the life insured has
given us
We will ask the life insured questions during
the application process and may also request
additional information from the life insured in
order to assess the application and offer the
life insured a policy. The life insured must take
care when answering any questions and ensure
that all information provided is accurate and
complete.
If the life insured (including any person acting
on their behalf) deliberately or recklessly provide
inaccurate information we may cancel the policy
and refuse to pay the cover amount. In these
circumstances our administrator may not
refund any premiums the life insured has paid.
If the life insured (including any person acting
on their behalf) carelessly provide inaccurate
information, we shall be entitled to amend the
life insured policy to reflect the terms that we
would have offered had the accurate information
been provided during the application process.
General Conditions
12
This may mean:
• we cancel the policy and return all premiums
the life insured has paid – if we would not
have issued the life insured with a policy had
the accurate information been known; or
• we reduce the cover amount to reflect the
higher premium that would have applied had
the accurate information been known; or
• we make changes to the policy terms
and conditions to reflect the terms and
conditions that would have applied had the
accurate information been known and we will
treat the policy as if it had been issued on
these amended terms and conditions
The answers the life insured gives during
the application process will be sent to the
life insured at the same time as the policy
schedule. If any of these answers are not
correct, the life insured must immediately
inform our administrator of the correct
information as this could affect the cover.
Policy changes
If the life insured’s circumstances change, the
life insured needs to contact our administrator.
For example if the life insured moves house.
We may change the terms & conditions at any
time. In such event we will give the life insured
30 days’ notice and we will highlight the changes
so that it’s clear what is changing and how it may
affect the life insured.
Moving Abroad
If the life insured moves abroad we recommend
that the life insured obtain independent advice
in relation to this policy on the tax consequences
of changing their country of residence. We
are not responsible for any adverse tax
consequences that may arise in respect of this
policy and/or any payments made under the
policy as a result of the life insured changing
their country of residence.
If the life insured moves to another country
outside the UK, the policy may no longer be
suitable for their individual needs. UK laws or
the local laws and regulations of the country to
which the life insured moves may impact the
life insured’s ability to continue to operate the
policy in line with these terms and conditions.
If the life insured moves abroad they will need
to continue to pay the premium from a bank or
building society in the UK in the currency of the
UK.
Guaranteed Increase Option
The life insured can increase the cover amount
without underwriting under the Guaranteed
Increase option at specified eligible events.
If the life insured uses the Guaranteed Increase
Option the monthly premium will change.
Increasing the sum insured
When can the life insured use the guaranteed
insurability option?
The life insured can use this option in the event
of:
• Marriage
• Civil Partnership
• Childbirth or adoption
• Increase to size or term of mortgage
• Promotion or job change with salary increase.
Conditions
The following restrictions apply:
• Per event: cover increase is capped at the
lowest of: 25% of the original cover amount
and £50,000
• Overall Increase: option can be exercised
on multiple events subject to an overall cap
of the lowest of 100% of the original cover
amount and £100,000
• Age limit of 55 attained for exercising option
(applies to the older life for joint life policies)
• Can be exercised a maximum of 3 times
• Option only available once on each of the
listed events
• Increase must be effected within six months
of the event
• This option is not available if the life insured
has been diagnosed with a terminal illness
• For salary-driven increases the increase
in the cover amount may not exceed the
increase in salary
• Non-rated cases only (Standard Lives)
Can changes be made to the cover
amount or term without using the
Guaranteed Increase Option?
Amendments can be made at any time outside
of the Guaranteed Increase Option subject to:
• Increase to cover amount – full underwriting
process required
• Decrease to cover amount – no
underwriting process required
General Conditions
continued
13
• Increase to policy term – full underwriting
process required
• Decrease to policy term – no underwriting
process required
If the life insured requests a change to the cover
amount or term then the monthly premium will
change.
Trusts and assignments
The life insured may want the cover amount to
be paid to a specific person or company when
the life insured dies. The life insured can do this
by transferring the policy to one or more people
or to a company. Transfers can be done by way
of assignment or alternatively by placing the
policy into trust.
It is the life insured’s responsibility to ensure
that the policy is assigned or placed in trust in
a way that is effective and legally valid. The life
insured may want to take independent advice
before doing this.
Power of Attorney
The policy can be taken over by Power of
Attorney.
Governing Law
English law applies to this policy. Unless
otherwise agreed, the terms and conditions and
other information relating to this policy will be in
English.
Large print, Braille, audio material
In order to make our documentation accessible,
we are able to provide the life insured with our
literature in audio, large print or Braille. Please
contact our administrator if you or the life
insured require any of these services to be
provided.
General Conditions
continued
14
Legal
Data Privacy
Covéa Life Limited will be a data controller in
respect of any data it processes in relation
to the underwriting of the policy and Claims
Handling. Full details of how Covéa Life Limited will
process data and your or the life insured‘s data
protection rights is available at
www.coveainsurance.co.uk/dataprotection
You or the life insured can contact the Data
Protection Officer at Covéa Life Limited by
writing to Data Protection Officer, Covéa Life
Limited, Norman Place, Reading, Berkshire RG1
8DA or email:
dataprotection@coveainsurance.co.uk
Compass Underwriting Limited will also be a data
controller in respect of any data it processes
in relation to policy administration. Full details
of how Compass Underwriting Limited will
process data and your or the life insured’s data
protection rights is available at
www.compassuw.co.uk/privacy-policy/
You or the life insured can contact the Data
Protection Officer at Compass Underwriting
Limited by writing to Data Protection Officer,
Compass Underwriting Limited, 30 Dukes Place,
London, EC3A 7LP or email:
info@compassuw.co.uk
Fraud
You or the life insured must not act in a
fraudulent manner. If you or the life insured
make a claim under the policy knowing the claim
to be false or fraudulently exaggerated in any
respect or make a statement in support of a
claim knowing the statement to be false in any
respect or submit a document in support of a
claim knowing the document to be forged or
false in any respect or make a claim in respect
of any loss or damage caused by your or the
life insured‘s wilful act or with your or the life
insured’s involvement. Then:
• We shall not pay the claim.
• We shall not pay any other claim, which has
been or will be made under the policy.
• We may at our discretion declare the policy
void.
• We shall be entitled to recover from you
or the life insured the amount of any claim
already paid under the policy
• We shall not make any return of the premium.
• We have the right to inform the police
and other appropriate authorities or share
this information with the Insurance Fraud
Investigators Group (IFIG) or other Fraud
authorities.
The Financial Services
Compensation Scheme (FSCS)
If we are unable to meet our liabilities under
this policy, you or the life insured may be
entitled to compensation from the FSCS. Further
information can be obtained from the Financial
Services Compensation Scheme, 10th Floor,
Beaufort House, 15 St Botolph Street, London
EC3A 7QU or by visiting the FSCS website at
www.fscs.org.uk or telephoning FSCS on 0800
678 1100 or 020 7741 4100.
Covéa Life Limited Financial
Position
We want to provide you or the life insured with
clear information about Covéa Life Limited’s
financial position.
Covéa Group publishes its Solvency and
Financial Condition Report for Covéa Life Limited
on their website: www.coveainsurance.co.uk/
about-us/financials. In it you or the life insured
will find more details about Covéa Life’s business
and company performance.
This report is provided annually and will be
available up to 5 years from date of publication.
Upon request Covéa Life can also provide you
or the life insured with a printed copy of their
report, (however this must be requested within
2 years from publication) but please allow 20
working days for receipt.
Covéa Life Limited
Covéa Life Limited, authorised by the Prudential
Regulation Authority and regulated by the
Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential
Regulation Authority, number 202178. Registered
Office: Norman Place, Reading, Berkshire, RG1
8DA. Registered in England and Wales Number
00911235.
15
Compass Underwriting Limited
Compass Underwriting Limited is authorised and
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority,
number 304908. Registered Office: Brierly Place,
New London Road, Chelmsford. Essex CM2 0AP.
Registered in England & Wales number 0333231.
Legal
continued
K6204.12.21
Bequest is a trading name of FF Bequest Limited. Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority,
number 923791.
Covéa Life Limited authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority, number 202178. Registered in England & Wales number
00911235. Registered Office: 2 Norman Place, Reading, Berkshire RG1 8DA